---
layout: default
title: Building a Portfolio on Github
---

Think of it as a beginner's guide to photography by teaching someone how to download the Instagram phone app and how to create an account and how to press the shutter "button", and how to turn off your phone's stupid Flash.


-------------

This a very narrowly focused tutorial aimed at the person who has no web devleopment experience and has never used Github, or git, or even the command line, but for some reason, wants a webpage of their own.

I don't recommend anyone just build their own website: I've made more contacts and job leads as a photographer by dumping photos into Facebook albums than I will ever make through a fancy scrolly slideshow portfolio. 

But sometimes you just need something special-made. 

So this tutorial is for those people, not so that they can build their own webpage, but that they at least know what *not* to build. Chances are, you don't need Wordpress unless you need to blog. You don't need Drupal for your project site. You don't need a webserver jsut to host your research papers to the world.

### Miminalism

There are many great web design tutorials, and how to use Git, and so forth. But few of them cater to an absolute beginner.




## Why Github?

Because it's easy. And if you don't like Github, you can take the exact code you've produced and put it anywhere else that acts as a web server.

Github is just a free, relatively convenient starting spot.

## Minimal Github

I think Github's a great service, something that has done an unimaginable amount in spreading information and good concepts.

But this is not a tutorial on how to use Github. If Github, or git, was relevant to your current life, you'd be using it by now, or at least have enough sense to read a proper tutorial.

This is a tutorial on basic Web concepts and creation. Github is merely the host, and we are the parasites. All this talk of pull requests, diffs, colalboration,etc. are nice, but again, if we needed that.

Github is used because of specific features that prevent us from having to do anything more technical than point-and-click. This is not my personal philosophy, of course, but I also think it's foolish to learn something you don't know that you need.

So here's just what you need




### Lessons

1. [Setup Github]({{ site.baseurl }}/lessons/setup-github)
  - How to open a Github account
  - How to create a project repository on Github
  - How to create a new file inside the repository

2. [Deploy a Github Page]({{ site.baseurl }}/lessons/deploy-github-pages)
  - How to create and publish a webpage from scratch via Github Pages
  - How "publishing" a file is different than publishing a blog post
  - How plain text is different than HTML

3. [Github Pages Auto](TK)
  - An (optional) tour of Github Pages pre-built, autogenerated web page templates
  - A (optional) brief tour of Markdown
  - Practical experience with the concept of "separation of content from display"

4. [Clone, Edit, Commit, and Push](TK)
  - How to install the Github desktop app (for Mac and Win)
  - How to use your own operating system to manage and edit your webpage project files
  - How to commit and "push" new changes and edits to your online Github repo
  - How to add new, non-text files to your Github repo

5. [Creating a Portfolio](TK)
  - How to edit HTML, JavaScript, and CSS files
  - How to tweak and test things you have no clue about

6. [Off-Github](TK)
  - Basic git concepts
  - How to collaborate with others
  - How to customize a web domain
  - How to move off of Github

7. [Templating](TK)
  - How to not repeat yourself


<!-- 
3. [Clone, Edit, Commit, and Push]({{ site.baseurl }}/lessons/clone-github-pages-repo)
4. [Remove, Rebuild, and Recommit]({{ site.baseurl }}/lessons/remove-rebuild-recommit)
 -->


### Other resources

#### On using Github and Github Pages

- [Github Pages](http://pages.github.com/) - the official, easy to follow documentation
- [How to: Portfolio sites for journalists, GitHub makes them cheap and (kinda) easy](http://knightlab.northwestern.edu/2013/08/02/how-to-portfolio-sites-for-journalists-github-makes-em-cheap-and-kinda-easy/) - by Tyler Fisher, for the Northwestern Knight Lab
- [Getting Started With a GitHub Repository](http://chronicle.com/blogs/profhacker/getting-started-with-a-github-repository/47393) - the first of a seven-article series on Github for non-coders, by Konrad M. Lawson, for The Chronicle of Higher Education


#### On using git

- [Try Git](http://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1) - A 15-minute interactive tutorial if you want to be more familiar with Git at the command-line.
